When I neared its green meadows,heaps and mounds were piled up at my command.In a pure place I built my house, an appropriate name I gave it.The long text continues to describe how Ea/Enki then assigned tasks to his lieutenants, putting their Mission to Earth in motion.Numerous other texts that relate varied aspects of Enki's role in the ensuing developments serve to complete Enki's tale; they include a comogony, an Epic of Creation, at whose core lay Enki's own text, which scholars call The Eridu Genesis. They include detailed descriptions of the fashioning of the Adam. They describe how other Anunnaki, male and female, came to Enki in his city Eridu to obtain from him the ME-a kind of data-disc that encoded all aspects of civilization; and they include texts of Enki's private life and personal problems, such as the tale of his attempts to attain a son by his half sister Ninharsag, his promiscuous affairs with both goddesses and the Daughters of Man, and the unforeseen consequences thereof. -The Atra Hasis text throws light on Anu's efforts to prevent a flare-up of the Enki-Enlil rivalries by dividing Earth's domains between them; and texts recording the events preceding the Deluge render almost verbatim the debates in the Council of the Gods about the fate of Mankind and Enki's subterfuge known as the tale of Noah and the ark-a tale known only from the Bible until one of its original Mesopotamian versions was found in the tablets of the Epic of Gilgamesh.Sumerian and Akkadian clay tablets; Babylonian and Assyrian temple libraries; Egyptian, Hittite, and Canaanite "myths"; and the biblical narratives are the main body of written-down memories of the affairs of gods and men. For the first time ever, this dispersed and fragmented material has been assembled and used by Zecharia Sitchin to re-create the eyewitness account of Enki- the autobiographical memoirs and insightful prophecies of an extraterrestrial god.Presented as a text dictated by Enki to a chosen scribe, a Book of Witnessing to be unsealed at an appropriate time, it brings to mind Yahweh's instructions to the Prophet Isaiah (seventh century B.C.):Now come,Write it on a sealed tablet, as a book engrave it;Let it be a witnessing until the last day, a testimony for all time.Isaiah 30:8In dealing with the past, Enki himself perceived the future. The notion that the Anunnaki, exercising free will, were masters of their own fates (as well as the fate of Mankind) gave way, in the end, to a realization that it was Destine that, when all was said and done, determined the course of events; and therefore-as the Hebrew Prophets had recognized-the First Things shall be the Last Things.6

